We'll sell them on the street, like street
vendors, and just buy it for the size of it. And then
we'd all get together, and sometimes there would
be an outfit function that would be going on. And
then you always had to, the upperclassmen always
would have comments about your day. And then
everybody would get together and go to midnight
y'all practice and would do that. And then, at
least in my case, there were always parents who
would come in for the weekend. And usually
Saturday morning you'd get up and you'd be busy
getting your uniform together and making sure
everything was spotless. And, of course, parents
were allowed in the dorms, and so you want to make
sure that your hole looked clean and neat and
somewhat presentable. And then typically, you
know, you'd get together with your date and you'd
fall out for the march into the games. which is
something every time I still go to a game, I still go
to watch that portion of it. And then after the
game, there's usually, unfortunately when I was
there, we didn't get to throw the year old leaders
in the pond very often. My fish year we did, because
that was the year that Gene Stallings won the
cotton ball. But after that it got bad. And then
typically I have a big party That's every night.
We're going to do stuff. Seems like we usually want
the hotels. Usually your date would stay in a
hotel. But back then, no one had apartments. You
had to live on campus. In fact, I can remember my
senior year.
My two really close friends, we're twin brothers.
we all became data and got an apartment. And I can
remember having to get a doctor's from not
permission, but a doctor saying because I had
special dietary needs couldn't be fulfilled on
campus that I need to live off campus, but you
actually had to have something that will allow you
to live off campus. And so this would have been in
the fall of 1970. In that era, on that Saturday
night football weekend, what time would you have
gotten the young lady to her room? How late did you
all stay out? Oh, back then, I'd say it was very
proper. It was like 12, 1 o'clock. It wasn't like
now. How were the women treated? Very respectful.
Very respectful. I think that,
well, mostly very respectful. unfortunately can
remember certain
core trips when we would have let's say we're
playing at Baylor and one of our buddies would have
a girlfriend at Baylor and she would try to get
everybody dates and sometimes if your date was not
what you had hoped for Aggies could be pretty cool
and there were certain things that would be done
like pots taken to See who had the worst date. Yeah.
Let's see. Was that a moose pot? Something, yeah.
All right. Are you aware that also the women used to
sometimes from TWU have exactly the... Oh, I would
think they would. You know, I never went out with
anybody from TWU. Oh, really? Yeah. Now, in your
era, were they still bringing down busloads,
trainloads, upcassings? No. Okay. A little bit
after that, or a little bit before that. As you look
back on it, How likely was it that something would
happen involving a young man and a young woman on
weekends at A&M then that was pretty extreme
compared to today? I would say it was very tame. I
truly don't even remember, like, guys trying to
sneak girls into the room. I mean, I don't just
remember that. It just didn't happen. I mean, you
may go to the hotel and stay with the girl
overnight, but I don't recall ever... I mean,
people, it was still an era when there was, I think,
a pretty high degree of propriety, particularly
between males. How often were you aware that
somebody just got really drunk? Oh, that happened
quite frequently. Is that right? Not drunk to the
extent of maybe
having, you know, doing damage or anything
physical. But, you know, drink was a pretty, Big
part of going to school there. And
was there somebody then who literally was careful
not to get drunk to be the driver? No, there was no
such thing as a designated driver,
unfortunately. And on some of the court trips, I
can remember driving back to College Station
when, in retrospect, there was probably none of us
should have been driving. And you talk about
people who made a difference. That brings up
another thing. I can remember at the end of my
sophomore year, um and it was right before
christmas and my roommate and i had been out we had
some drinks been having a good time and we're
weaving back on the campus and getting ready to
park and all of a sudden we see lights behind us like
we're in deep trouble now and the campus cop guy
gets out and of course we're underage we've been
drinking and we've broken all these rules And he
took our names down, our driver's license down,
and we're thinking, this is going to be horrible.
And he said, well, boys, he said, I'm going to think
about this. And he said, if you go home over the
holidays, you may be getting something in the mail
that says, here's a citation for underage
drinking. And he says, but if you don't get
anything in the mail while you're at home over
Christmas, how do you get home? And so we sweat it. I
can remember going in the mailbox every day to
check to see if it got anything. And I think it was
just his way of, The
what other evils did you all know about other than
staying out late and drink? Oh, and when you drank,
what did people drink? What were the beverages
they were drinking? Mostly just beer. We weren't
real sophisticated. I can remember lots of kegs of
beer. A lot of times our outfit would go out and
somebody would go out deer hunting and they'd get a
deer and it would go, I can't remember where it was,
but it was someplace off campus. And we'd butcher
the deer right there on the spot and barbecue it up
and have kegs of beer. I remember doing that quite a
bit. Did anybody ever butcher it in the dorm? Not in
the dorm, no. Because I've heard two or three good
stories about that. You're talking about the
evils, too. I've been thinking about it in the late
60s, early 70s. And I can say, I don't recall any
drug use. What drugs did you know existed?
I can say that my whole four years at A&M, I never
went to a party, never smelled at the dorms,
never... Was there, did you know of any Aggie
having marijuana in that year? Probably back
then, I wouldn't even know. And were you aware of
the words heroin or cocaine?
Probably.
And were you aware of any Aggies being the
fathering children out of wedlock very much? No, a
couple of my Aggie
buddies.
It was a very cold night, and as I recall, those
windows at the end of the hallways there were a
group of people standing around, and it was a very,
very cold night, and the glass was very cold, and
one of the students in the dorm decided to move the
people out there, and one of the warm, rearing,
cold glass shattered.
And did he get any special treatment from any? I
think he had to go to the hospital to get it. Oh,
really? Yeah. Oh, oh, oh. I was wondering if any
upperclassmen made it. No, no. And I remember if it
was one of our temporaries or if it was...
When I was there, I'm sure you see this picture all
the time, Hector Gutierrez. Hector and then Henry
was two years ahead of me. Hector was Corps
Commander.
And I knew him well then and know him well now. Great
guy. Did you ever have any personal interaction
with Hector? Well, because for a couple years we
lived in the core dorm, or the core headquarters.
That's how we were seen.
Describe Hector. He was what I would categorize as
a true leader. Examples of that leadership. Henry
Cisneros.
I think they both had very
They both had extraordinary leadership quality.
Did for either one of them, did you and your fellow
Aggies think it meant anything plus or minus that
they were Hispanic? I don't think back then it
didn't matter. I certainly don't remember
thinking that this is great that these Hispanics
have got this great role. But on the other hand, we
didn't think why are these guys You didn't think
negatively. You didn't think they... No, there's
not a racial thing. And for me, not growing up
around any Hispanics, I certainly didn't have any
prejudice from one way or the other. But I remember
them very differently. And then we had a guy named
Matt Carroll. I think he was the Corps Commander my
junior year. And then Van Taylor was Corps
Commander my senior year from my high school. Oh,
really? Oh, see, I know Van then and now. Oh,
really? I was on the Southwestern Bell Board for 17
years. Describe undergraduate Van Taylor.
Serious all the time. I mean, not to say that he
was...
Well, he wasn't fun, but he was a pretty serious
guy. And then another guy that he worked with was
Commander...
did
you and your fellow students think that the
student leaders were selected truly on the basis
of merit the corps commanders and people like that
i didn't really get in the political aspects of it
but i know my senior i thought that the band had um
been a good ROTC student, and I thought he deserved
it. Matt Carroll almost didn't get to be Corps
Commander because we were, and I can't remember
why, I can't remember if it was because where he
grew up, but for some reason, the summer or the
spring, as we were leaving for the summer, before
the year that he was going to be Corps Commander, so
this would have been the end of my sophomore year,
going into my junior year, and one in his senior
year, for some reason, he was riding back down. I
don't know if he was, we dropped him off along the
way or what the circumstances were, but we were
going down Highway six. And I decided I was going to
pass somebody, of course, there was just a two lane
road, and a car was coming the other direction. And
we managed to swerve off the road. No. Yeah. And I
think, as I recall, Matt's comments were
something like, you know, and I'm not sure
whatever happened.
He's done well. I've forgotten what he's doing
now, but he's done well. Among
you and your fellow students, which of the
extracurricular student groups did you all
respect most? Which had the highest prestige? rvs
compared to the band and msc and all that which
which single student office on the campus had the
highest prestige
well back when i was it's not an office but a core
commander okay it's clearly the most important
question and that was that was more than being
student body president I mean, like, I couldn't
tell you who the student body president was each of
the four years I was in school. I can tell you who the
corps commander was. And MSC council president,
you know, same thing. But I remember that was
important. Yeah. And Sconda was important, but,
you know, back then, I don't know what the
percentage was. It was four versus Monterey, but
it was still a big percentage. What did you and your
buddies think about the band? There were BQs. I
think that, I mean, you love the band. And again, to
this day, every time I'm down for a football game,
that's what I want to do is to go down and get that
experience. But I can say that I don't know that I
ever was close to anybody that was in the band.
Physically, we were always up on that other, that
north end of the quad, going two and four. And so for
some reason just never had an opportunity to meet a
lot of guys. There were a lot of outfits that for one
reason or another you were always close to. For
example, again, going back to my four friends that
went there with the other two were in F2. So I
probably got to know or was close to the members of
F2 as I was in my own company at one. In fact, the two
twins that where my roommates my senior year were
in f2 and then the room together and to this day are
still extremely close in fact one of them just left
to go back to houston yesterday because he spent
the weekend with me oh good um let's see uh senior
boots where'd you get them and how much they cost
Were they new? Yeah, they were new. It seems like
they were about $400 or $500. What did you do with
them when you... I still have them. You still have
them? I still have them in my house. My wife keeps
saying, what are we ever going to do with these
senior boots? One day, about five years ago, I
tried to try them on and couldn't get them on. In
fact, I need to get my Aggie ring resized because
for some reason the last three or four months I
can't get my senior ring resized. Are those, what
do those boots mean to you? Why are they special? I
think it's probably just a sense of achievement.
I've gone through three years of, I was probably
not a real military guy. In fact,
the summer for me, the summer between my sophomore
and junior year when I had to sign a contract for
ROTC, I wasn't sure if the Army ROTC was what I
wanted, so I talked to the Naval OCS guys about
going to the Navy. And that summer, so it would be
the summer of 69, is when they had the first
lottery. And I can remember a bunch of our buddies
getting together and watching the lottery. Most
of them had already planned on signing the
contract. And I decided that if I got a low number,
that I was going to go ahead and go with the Naval
OCS. And if I got a high number, then I was just going
to go to DNC and I got a high number and that's what I
did so I stayed in the court the last two years which
was in a sense that was our fraternities back then
were you aware that there were some secret
fraternities no not when you were there
apparently there were one or two but probably
mostly on the No, no, no. In the Corps? The TTs, the
true Texans, and the swastikas go back to the 20s.
And almost nobody has been willing to say anything
to me other than, yes, I heard there were some, but I
don't know. The swastikas use the swastika as
their symbol, and it goes back at least to the 20s,
maybe the teens. So long before Adolf Hitler. you
about it. And apparently their total purpose was
to try to help members of their group become corps
commander, RVs, senior class president and that
sort of thing. Let's see, what physical changes
were there on the campus in your four years? What
was new? What was,
did it change much? Do you remember?
12,000 students when we started and probably 16 or
17,000 when I graduated. Make believe that I'd
never heard of this man Earl Rutter. Tell me about
him as you students knew him. I mean I can remember
him as being larger than life.
Unplug up there. Rutter's Rangers. Remember all
the stories of Rutter's Rangers and all of his
heroic deeds? We can remember, I can remember
going by the house at Christmas time and
serenading him with Christmas carols.
And just a truly remarkable,
remarkable memory. What word or words would you
now describe the feeling which you and your
colleagues had about him?
Admired him, respected him.
And now later in life, I know that he's been given a
lot of credit for
bucking the trend and allowing co-education and
making the poor optional. And so I think now we have
to say forward thinking.
Probably, I can't think of too many people that
I've ever come across in my lifetime that you would
put into a hero status, but he would be one. Let's
see. Did
you ever hitchhike? Oh, yeah. Describe hit Aggie
hitchhiking. Put on the uniform and get out. I
mean, I hitchhiked, hitchhiked a lot from College
Station orange. And of course, again, this was
back during the days of the Vietnam War. And Well,
probably we've expected to have been heckled more
than we were. But I can recall very few incidents
where, you know, people would yell stuff at you as
you're out on the side of the road or whatever. I'd
say almost all positive experiences. You caught
the ride out at Eastgate. Uh-huh. And where in
Houston was the ideal place to catch a ride, or was
there a special? There wasn't a special. Usually
you could get a ride with somebody leaving College
Station and going to Houston. I mean, most direct
route, as you know, from College Station to Orange
was not through Houston. But if you were
hitchhiking, you almost had to go that way. You
usually could hitch a ride with somebody to
Houston and then get out and start thumbing it. And
usually right there on one of the major freeways
close to Interstate 10. I don't recall ever having
any problems hitching a ride. maybe one occasion
once feeling a little bit uncomfortable, picked
up a bunch of guys on Saturday night. But really, I
mean, that was an easy way to go back and forth. In
orange, where would you catch the ride? Usually
once I got to orange, it seems like I'd have a ride to
come back to College Station. Typically, it was if
you got out of class earlier, you didn't have a ride
down, but it seemed like I always had a ride back. I
don't ever remember hitchhiking back from? Do you
have any hitchhike anecdote that would be
appropriate share? Actually, remember, it was
really pretty, pretty simple. Again, and
probably by the time I was trying to catch like more
of my, my freshman, sophomore years. Never had any
problem. Let's see, we talked about getting
dates. Was Lupo around? Did you have any relations
with Little Army Lou? No. You didn't buy it? I
bought books and stuff. But you never borrowed any
money? No, never. Because I've heard of some good
stories where he would stake them and so forth. Do
you remember any off-campus events that kind of
stunned you, either in the U.S. or worldwide? This
is the, you and I are chatting on the anniversary of
the John Kennedy assassination. So for me, that
would be one of the, do you remember any when you
were a student? This would have been, I think it was
actually the summer, probably between my
sophomore and junior years, maybe my junior or
senior year, when we landed on the moon for the
first time. I remember that. Where were you, and
what did you do? I was at a Blood, Sweat, and Tears
concert in Houston. And I remember they
interrupted the concert to say that we landed. Any
feelings? I was pretty proud, yeah. I mean, it was a
pretty special time. And, of course, you know,
with us, so much of it was also
things that were happening with the war. What did
you and your friends at A&M think about Vietnam?
I think there was probably
not as gung-ho an attitude towards it as you would
expect from a basic military college. I don't
recall that, again, there were a lot of
demonstrations of people necessarily radically
against it, but I don't, at least in my outfit, I
don't recall, you know, like everybody being
gung-ho to say, let's hurry up and graduate so we
can go fight the war in Vietnam. So there wasn't the
resistance to it, but there certainly wasn't
anybody that was necessarily wanting to go over
there. Did some of your friends go to Vietnam and
get killed? Not close friends, but certainly no
people did. And I know people that, I had a friend
that was able to avoid, he wasn't going to get
drafted anyway, it didn't look like, but, I don't
know exactly what, I remember he got braces put on
his teeth, as a way to avoid getting drafted,
because I guess they weren't orthodontists or
something, but there was some reason that that
was, I didn't know anybody that went to Canada,
but, so I remember that. Let's see, the campus, you
mentioned Mr. Rudder. Were there any other famous
campus dignitaries of your era? Sports heroes?
Randy Mattson was still there. He was still a
pretty big figure because... What did you all
think of Randy as a person? I think everybody
looked up to him. He was a guy that had a world
record, I guess. And, no, he was always going to go
out there.
remember
Malin's nickname as attack officer
the slink and one of his buddies was the wage, the
simplest tool known to man. That was the Corps
explanation. And who was that? No, I don't. Who was
the commandant of the Corps when you were there?
You see, I don't remember my secret. Oh, the
commandant,
I don't know. I don't even remember. I don't
remember who the band... I'm a band director.
Colonel, was it... Adam
final review your junior and senior year describe
feelings where did it happen and so forth
you know I don't remember that's for some reason
for me that wasn't a good living memory
Actually, I dropped out of the Corps finally the
spring semester of my senior year. So you didn't go
through that. So I didn't go in my senior year. But I
remember it was a big deal in my junior year, but I
don't know why it wasn't a strong experience. What
did it feel like putting on those senior boots the
first time? That felt real special. That was a
pretty incredible experience. That and my senior
year. Do you remember what the senior ring cost
you? $35. It's now almost $500. Well, I can
remember because my first senior ring, I lost it to
the Houston Lord football team, and my parents
bought me another replacement ring. I think back
then it was like $350. And that senior ring has been
interesting because for the 10 years you saw us in
New York, I didn't wear it very frequently.
Because it's just kind of people back then. That
wasn't part of the jewelry. And when we moved back
out here, I started wearing it. And it's just been
amazing how my wife likes to get a lot of Aggies. And
how cross room.
Do you have any good Aggie ring story to offer?
Okay, good things happen. I mean, I'm going to
upgrade on airplanes. Flight attendants in my
first class. But mostly it's just the
camaraderie.
Things that happen as a result. Do you remember
silver taps first time or any of any time that was
special?
Very In fact, there's a letter in the court museum,
and I don't remember, I'm sure I remember at the
time, I don't remember too vividly right now, but
it's a letter by a young man that wrote his parents
about his first silver taps, and then the next week
he was killed. And the letter's in the court
museum, and you can't... you can't go by and read
it. To this day, I still read that letter and get
chucked out. And that occurred when I was in
school. Then I remember another thing that was
kind of interesting. I don't even remember what
the final outcome was, but when I was there, there
was a student that was killed in the process of
committing the robbery at the Gibson store right
there. And I remember the big discussion of
whether silver taps should be held for them. And I
don't remember if it actually was. I think they did
hold it. Do you know that? I was part of the process
of where the paper flow went. Probably in 1970. I
was among those who asked the question, was this
person an Aggie or not? If this person was an Aggie,
isn't silver taps held for all Aggies? If this
person was not an Aggie, then there's no question.
And everybody agreed, yep, he was an Aggie,
therefore we'll hold it.
Did all of you and all of your colleagues respect
the protocol of when to be silent when to keep the
lights out and so forth i would say that was
probably ahead of all the traditions right one
certainly one that's made the most vivid memories
all right these traditions uh list the traditions
that are